.TH MARIADB_STORAGE_AUDIT 1 2026-03-14 "PMA Control" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mariadb_storage_audit \- Linux system audit and tuning around MariaDB/MySQL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mariadb_storage_audit.sh
.RI [ --lang " fr|en|ru|zh "]
.br
.B mariadb_storage_audit.sh
.BR --check " | " --dry-run " | " --apply
.RI [ --lang " fr|en|ru|zh "]
.br
.B mariadb_storage_audit.sh
.BR --help " | " --author " | " --authour " | " --license " | " --lisense " | " --version " | " --install-man
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mariadb_storage_audit.sh
audits Linux system settings around a MariaDB/MySQL server and can apply
selected system-only tuning. It may read MariaDB information to improve
diagnostics, but it does not modify MariaDB configuration.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --check
Read-only audit mode.
.TP
.B --dry-run
Show the commands and file writes that would be executed by
.BR --apply .
.TP
.B --apply
Apply Linux system tuning and verify the resulting state.
.TP
.B --help
Show detailed help.
.TP
.BR --author ", " --authour
Show author information.
.TP
.BR --license ", " --lisense
Show license information.
.TP
.B --version
Show script version.
.TP
.B --install-man
Install this manual page under
.IR /usr/local/share/man/man1/ .
.TP
.BI --lang " fr|en|ru|zh"
Force help language. Unknown values fall back to English.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sysctl.d/99-mariadb-tuning.conf
Persistent sysctl settings written by
.BR --apply .
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/disable-thp.service
Persistent systemd service used to disable Transparent Huge Pages.
.TP
.I /etc/udev/rules.d/60-io-scheduler.rules
Persistent block scheduler rule written by
.BR --apply .
.TP
.I /etc/fstab
Mount configuration checked and optionally updated by
.BR --apply .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error or invalid option.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B mariadb_storage_audit.sh --check
Run the audit only.
.TP
.B mariadb_storage_audit.sh --dry-run
Show the changes that would be applied.
.TP
.B mariadb_storage_audit.sh --install-man
Install this man page, then use
.BR man\ mariadb_storage_audit .
.SH AUTHOR
Aurélien LEQUOY
.MT aurelien@pmacontrol.com
.ME
.br
.UR http://www.pmacontrol.com
http://www.pmacontrol.com
.UE
.SH LICENSE
GPL-v3
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR man (1),
.BR less (1),
.BR systemctl (1),
.BR sysctl (8),
.BR findmnt (8)
